Tarrasque_-_DMDave_-_Adventure

What do you do when a 1,200 foot long, 600-foot
tall, hard-shelled lizard barrels across the
desert headed straight for the tavern in which
you and your friends are unwinding? Obviously,
you let a strange, bushy-haired gnome woman
use telekinesis to toss you inside a hole in the
thing's side so you can wander around in its
innards looking for a magic sword.
The Tarrasque Task of Moreen Trask is an 8th-level Fifth
Edition adventure intended for 4-5 characters. A cleric—
especially one with a ton of healing spells—will be a huge
benefit in this adventure. Meanwhile, characters with poor
Strength and Constitution scores will probably struggle
through this adventure. Also, if you or any of your players have
a weak stomach you better avoid this one. There's a whole lot
of poop and pee in it.

with the sword.
Just barely, the group reached the sleeping behemoth
having used all their spells and other resources in order to do
so. "So destroy the thing," Khahlo urged Trask. Trask raised
the sword and spoke a command. To the surprise of the party,
the tarrasque wasn't destroyed—instead, it woke. Suzen,
realizing Trask's betrayal, grabbed the sword from the gnome.
She was just about to use it until—chomp—the beast ate all
four of the Ironfield in one huge bite, including Suzen and the
sword.
"Well, shit," Moreen muttered before hopping on her broom
of flying and taking off. From there, the tarrasque erupted
from its rest and followed the archmage, chasing it across the
desert.



The characters are resting in a town when Trask shows up
with the tarrasque right behind her. Much like she did with the
Ironfield, she encourages the characters to help her stop the
tarrasque. She claims that a magic sword called Blightspore
is in the stomach of the tarrasque. It's the only thing that can
stop the beast.
If the characters agree, she creates a way for them to enter
the beast. Once inside, the characters must track down

Moreen Trask had been looking for the resting place of
Uduzmoth the Obese for most of her 300-year-long life. And
finally, she found the bugger, hidden under the desert sands to
the west of a village named Dubufi. Armed with a magical
relic known as Blightspore, a sword carved from the
tarrasque's own tooth, she aimed to waken the beast and
control it. There was only one problem—the tarrasque was
pretty well-guarded by a group of devoted monks.
Annoyed, Moreen put on a cloak and headed to the nearest
town. There, she met with a group of adventurers calling
themselves the Ironfield. Led by a Knotsider wizard named
Suzen Khahlo, the group consisted of an Anorian warrior
named Pharom Tracan, a Cord named Erebo Asteasuain, and
a Von Doral Priest of Adeus named Begrir Bronzefeet.
Moreen tasked the group to defeat the challenges in the
tarrasque's lair. Then, she would "put an end to the beast"



Mega Tarrasque
The tarrasque in this adventure is a particularly big
and nasty one. You might consider using the megatarrasque variant rules presented at the end of the
adventure to represent the creature's statistics.

3

Blightspore and find a way to escape the tarrasque. Easier
said than done, of course, as the tarrasque's guts are filled
with acid, oozes, parasites, and all manner of strange and
awful dangers.



This adventure can be placed into any setting that contains a
small village or town bordering a large desert. It works
especially well if the characters have just had a chance ot
unwind after an adventure and are fully recharged and
stocked.



Some of the text references the DMDave-created world of
Omeria. If you run the adventure in Omeria, be sure to
reference the other Omeria content on DMDave's Patreon
including the location of Dubufi in relation to the rest of the
populace.
If you use your own setting, simply ignore the names of the
cities, towns, and events. In Omeria, drow are referred to as
Anorians and mountain dwarves are Von Dorals.



Having just finished another successful adventure, the
characters are resting in a village tavern, drinking away their
loot and reminiscing on the beats of their latest conquest.
When suddenly (read):
Something strange is happening. The mugs of ale on the table
are rippling as if there's something large approaching. But from
where? Before you have time to consider that question, the
thumps get bigger—definitely footsteps now. And something
huge—nay, gargantuan!—is headed for the village.
The bar's patrons rush to the windows to see what all the
commotion is. You're headed that direction yourself, when, just
then, the front door flings open. A gnomish woman with wild,
bushy hair and slightly bulging eyes stands there, breathing
heavily.
"Tuh... tuh... tuh..." she says between gasps. Finally, she takes
a moment to catch her breath, clears her throat and points,
"Tarrasque!"
And she's correct. The 600-foot-tall creature of legend is
roughly 500 feet from the village and headed this way.

The gnomish woman's name is Moreen Trask (CE female
forest gnome archmage). Moreen recently discovered the
resting spot of the tarrasque Uduzmoth the Obese. Never one
to let danger get in her way, she tasked a group of four heroes
to help her set up a research station around Uduzmoth's
cavern. But then something bad happened: Uduzmoth woke
up. Immediately, the giant, shelled lizard ate all four of the
adventurers. Moreen nearly escaped with her life. Using her
broom of flying, she fled to Dubufi and is now desperate for
help.
Only one problem: there aren't a whole lot of adventurers in
Dubufi. At least not those capable of taking on a tarrasque.
4

"You!" she says pointing at you. "And you and you and you..."
and so on, until she points at each of you. "Come with me. You
can probably stop this thing. Maybe. I don't know. Regardless!
This way!"

Moreen talks while she walks explaining the situation. She
was carrying a significant item with her that she suspects is
responsible for waking the beast. One of the adventurers, a
Knotsider evoker named Suzen, was holding the object when
the tarrasque swallowed him. Moreen suspects that it's
probably still intact somewhere inside the tarrasque.
"It's likely in the thing's gut. If my theory is correct, it's what
shuts this thing on and off. So here's what you gotta do, gang:
get inside that thing, grab it, and get out. Sound good? Great!"

Moreen is intelligent but rather impatient, especially when
dealing with "dumbos"—and to Moreen, everyone is a dumbo.
"Look look look," says the bushy-haired gnome woman. "I ain't
sayin' you gotta let it eat you. No, that'll probably get ya kilt.
There," she points to a minaret-topped tower at the center of
town. "We're gonna trick that big dumb liz into coming straight
for that tower, then I'm gonna poke it in the gut with it—
doncha nevermind 'bout how ol' Moreen's gonna do that. Once
it's sticking in the thing, you'll go in through there, find the
Blightspore and get out. Either the way you came in or, uh,
um... 'other' ways."

She checks the characters' expressions to see what they're
thinking. However, before she can respond, she claps her
hands together.
"Great plan! Let's do it!" The gnomish woman turns on her heel
and casts a spell. From her hands spring four globes of light
that soar into the air above the tower. As she twirls her finger,
the globes of light spin around the minaret. Right away, the
tarrasque takes notice and starts charging for the village."



The tarrasque is 500 feet away. It will take it five rounds to
reach the tower. Meanwhile, the crowd in the area panics and
flees in all directions at once. If the characters stand their
ground and wait, there is a chance they could be knocked
prone and trampled by the fleeing crowd.
At the start of his or her turn, a character in the crowd must
make a DC 15 Strength saving throw. On a failed saving
throw, the character is knocked prone. In order to stand up, a
character must either spend his or her entire movement to
stand (instead of half as normal) or with a successful DC 15
Strength check, they can stand using half their movement as
normal. If a character ends their turn prone in the panicking
crowd, they take 7 (2d6) bludgeoning damage from the
stampede.

Once the tarrasque is within 150 feet of the tower, read:
The gnome woman holds her ground. Through her teeth, you
hear her murmuring an incantation. At the same time, from
within one of her pouches, she draws a chunk of glowing,
green rock roughly the size of an apple.
You watch in amazement as the tarrasque charges, spins, and
hits the base of the tower with its 500-foot-long tail.
Limestone erupts from the base as the tower's lower levels are
completely demolished. Plus, the force of the beast's tail was
so great the tower is lifted twenty feet into the air before it
starts to fall.
But before you see it hit the ground, the gnome woman
yells, "TIMESTOP!"
In a blink, the woman is floating 200 feet in the air near the
collapsing tower. The green light from her gem glows so
brightly now, it almost blinds you. You see that she's using its
energy to hold the demolished tower in place much to the awe
of the illuminated tarrasque. Then, she arches her right arm
back, miming a javelin thrower's motions—the tower lifts from
its space, turns at a 100-degree angle with the point of its
dome facing the tarrasque and rears back. You immediately
understand what she's doing: she's using the green gem to lift
the tower like a spear and now she's aiming for the tarrasque.
Screaming, she thrusts her arm forward. With the thrust, the
tower flies into the side of the tarrasque—the minaret's dome
plunges into the flesh of the beast just below the lip of its
shell. It bellows a roar so loud you think you can feel your
eardrums burst.

Moreen collapses. Her left arm is completely burned by the
radiant energy of the gem. She has only 10 hit points
remaining.
Right after the tower hit the tarrasque in its stomach, blood
and bile erupted from the tower like a hot geyser. Each
creature within 200 feet of the tarrasque must make a DC 15
Dexterity saving throw. A creature takes 28 (8d6) acid damage
on a failed saving throw, or half as much damage on a
successful one. The characters also watch in horror as
villagers are sprayed with the acid, instantly destroyed.
"Get near the tower!" the gnome woman coughs. "I'll get you
close enough to the lip of the tower to get through it." Oh, and
you'll need this. She casts a spell on you: water breathing.



At this point, the tarrasque is thrashing, its tail demolishing
buildings. Debris and stone fly everywhere. Dust fills the air,
lightly obscuring everything.
At the start of each of the character's turns, they must make
a DC 15 Dexterity saving throw. On a failed saving throw, he
or she take 10 (3d6) bludgeoning damage from flying debris. If
he or she fails his or her check by 5 or more,

he or she is also knocked prone. A character that succeeds on
his or her saving throw takes half damage from the debris.
Once the characters are within 60 feet of the tarrasque, it
should be apparent that they are in danger. However, before
the tarrasque can attack—it's been spending all of its actions
and legendary actions laying siege to Dubufi—Moreen yells,
"Stand on that door!" pointing to a door that's been torn off its
hinges.
After the characters get onto the door, she casts telekinesis
to lift them all up to the lip of the tower. They are on their own
from there.



Once the characters are in the lip of the tower, their mission is
to find the blightspore and escape by any means necessary.



Moving through a living creature is no picnic. Unless stated
otherwise, these are the common features of the tarrasque's
innards.
Circulatory System. The blue path on the map of the
tarrasque denotes passages through the circulatory system.
The circulatory system (and some of the organs it connects to)
is filled with blood and often flowing at powerful speeds to
and from the creature's heart. Treat these areas as being
underwater.
Digestive Tract. While climbing through the creature's
digestive tract doesn't require as much swimming as the
circulatory system does, it's not exactly pleasant, either. If the
tarrasque's digestive tract takes 60 damage or more on a
single turn from a creature inside it, roll a d20. On a result of
10 or higher, the tarrasque's regurgitates all creatures within
its stomach, esophagus, and mouth. A creature can avoid
being regurgitated by making a DC 20 Strength saving throw
to grab a hold of something. A creature that fails to stop itself
is ejected from the tarrasque's mouth, falling 1d10 x 10 feet to
the ground below, taking 1d6 falling damage for every 10 feet
that they fall.
Difficult Terrain. The "floors" of the tarrasque are all
covered in various oozes, liquids, and ichors. Plus, many of
the passages have veins, ridges, muscles, and other parts of
the beast's anatomy that makes moving through it
troublesome. Moving through the tarrasque costs 2 feet of
movement per 1 foot moved.
Light. There is no natural light within the tarrasque. The
room descriptions assume that the characters have their own
light sources or darkvision.
Living Creature. As long as the tarrasque is conscious, it's
very difficult to move through it. If it is knocked unconscious
(either the creature takes enough damage to reduce its hit
points to zero or its heart's hit points are reduced to zero),
creatures inside the tarrasque have advantage on all saving
throws to avoid the natural traps and hazards within the
tarrasque's anatomy.
Magical Anatomy. A creature whose passive Wisdom
(Medicine) is 13 or higher will automatically notice that there
is something strange about the way the organs are laid out
and function within the tarrasque. The only explanation is, of
course, magic.
Navigation. Instead of using a skill like Survival for
5

navigation, a character who is proficient in Medicine can use
their action to make a DC 10 Intelligence (Medicine) check to
determine which organ of the creature that the party is
currently in. They will also know the general direction that
certain parts of its body are located in relation to the current.



The tarrasque is filled with all sorts of antibodies, parasites,
half-eaten creatures, and other horrors. Every 10 minutes of
game time that the characters are inside the tarrasque, roll a
d20. On a result of 16 or higher, an encounter occurs. Choose
or roll randomly on the Tarrasque encounters table to
determine the nature of the encounter. Each of the monsters
are detailed in the Monsters of the Tarrasque Task
supplement.
Tarrasque Encounters
1d6

Encounter

1-3

1d4 inflammatory cells

4-5

3d6 killer cells

6

1d4 macrophages



The following room/organ descriptions are keyed to the
Tarrasque Innards Map supplement.


The tarrasque's aorta is the single longest blood vessel in its
entire body, running from its heart (Area 4) all the way down
to its kidneys (Areas 25 and 26). A creature that starts its turn
in the tarrasque's aorta must succeed on a DC 13 Strength
saving throw or be pushed 60-feet towards the kidneys.
When there is a branch in the aorta, roll a d6. The result
tells you which way the character is pushed, as detailed on the
tarrasque map on page XX.


The largest passage through the tarrasque is its esophagus
which begins at its mouth and ends at its stomach. The
esophagus uses gravity to pull anything in it down into its
stomach. A creature that starts its turn in the tarrasque's
esophagus must succeed on a DC 10 Strength saving throw
or slide 30-feet down the tarrasque's esophagus to its
stomach. Traveling up through the esophagus towards the
tarrasque's mouth is extremely difficult: it requires 4 feet of
movement per 1 foot moved to climb up the esophagus (in
place of the normal penalties for difficult terrain).
The esophagus is part of the tarrasque's digestive tract. See
General Features for details.


The tower enters the tarrasque's gut at a low 45-degree angle
piercing both its right lung and stomach. Read the following:
What was once a proud tower at the center of Dubufi village is
now a pipe entering the beast's gut. Acidic ooze cascades
down the "pipe" cresting over the spiral staircase

6

that once led up to the tower's minaret. With each breath the
beast takes you feel hot air push through the tunnel; you
suspect that the tower may have pierced not only its stomach
—hence all the acid—but also its lung.
You see what looks like an exit into the lung 40 feet ahead,
and although its dark, judging by the acid escaping the wound,
the entrance into the stomach is probably at the end of the
tower 70-80 feet ahead of you.

The characters will need to climb up the tower and enter
through the creature's lung or through its stomach. Treat the
entirety of the tower as a complex trap for the characters to
avoid, using initiative to get around certain parts of it:
Trigger. The conditions are already in effect when the
characters enter the tower.
Initiative. The tower's features act on initiative count 20
and initiative count 10.
Active Elements. The tarrasque's inhalations suck in air
(and anything else in the tower) then exhale, affecting all
creatures and objects within the tower.
Inhale (Initiative 20). Each creature in the tower must
succeed on a DC 10 Strength saving throw to grab onto
something or be pulled 20-feet towards the hole in the
tarrasque's right lung.
Exhale (Initiative 10). Each creature in the tower must
succeed on a DC 10 Strength saving throw to grab onto
something or be pushed 20-feet towards the lip of the
tower—and to the outside of the tarrasque. If a creature is
pushed outside the lip of the tower, it must make a DC 10
Dexterity saving to grab onto something or it falls out of the
tower, taking 1d6 damage for every 10 feet it falls
(maximum of 20d6). A creature that catches itself before it
falls out of the tower's lip can use its action to pull itself
back into the tower.
Dynamic Elements. After 5 rounds of having the tower in
its gut, the tarrasque uses its action to pull the tower out. On
initiative count 20 on the 6th round, roll a d20. On a result of
10 or higher, the tarrasque grabs the tower and removes it.
Any creatures still in the tower when this happens are thrown
away along with the tower. When this happens, a creature
inside the tower must make a DC 10 Constitution saving
throw, taking 17 (5d6) falling damage on a failed saving throw
or half as much damage on a successful one. Pass or fail, the
creature will need to find a new way inside the tarrasque.
The tarrasque's wounds heal and close 3 rounds after it
removes the tower.
Constant Elements. Acid continues to flow out of the
tarrasque's gut. A creature that ends its turn in the tower must
make a DC 10 Constitution saving throw. A creature takes 11
(2d10) acid damage from a failed saving throw or half as
much damage from a successful one.


Before the characters reach the dome from Area 1a, read:

Above: Right Lung
What looks like it was once an old, wooden trapdoor has been
completely dissolved by the thing's stomach acid. The door
entered into the tower's brass minaret. The interior of the
dome is still mostly intact save for a large, 10-foot diameter
hole in its side. Beyond the hole, you see the inside of the
thing's stomach. Already, you can feel the acidity on your skin.

A creature that ends its turn in the minaret takes 14 (4d6)
acid damage from the acid gushing from the tarrasque's
stomach.


Because of the damage it took, the right lung is in a poor state.
This large, greyish-brown organ is roughly 75-feet long by 45feet wide. The distance between the bottom—the "floor" you
could say—and the top—the "ceiling"—is about 15 feet

7

at its highest point. Throbbing blue veins encircle what looks
like thick, chitinous piping. Every few seconds the organ
expands as air flies in through an exit at one end then contracts
as the air escapes.
In addition to that hole, there is a hole at the opposite end
that looks like the organ was torn open. Then at one of the
"side walls" there's another naturally occuring exit from which
a number of veins spill—a thunderous pounding, not unlike a
war drum, comes from that exit.

Treat the entirety of the right lung as a complex trap for the
characters to avoid, using initiative to get around certain parts
of it.
8

Trigger. The conditions are already in effect when the
characters enter the lung.
Initiative. The lung's features act on initiative count 20 and
initiative count 10.
Active Elements. The tarrasque's inhalations suck in air
(and anything in the lung) then exhale, affecting all creatures
and objects within the tower.
Inhale (Initiative 20). Each creature in the lung must make a
DC 10 Strength saving throw or fall prone in its space.
Exhale (Initiative 10). Each creature in the lung must make
a DC 10 Strength saving throw or be pushed towards the
northern exit into the circulatory system.
Encounter. There are two dire roundworms in the
tarrasque's right lung. They attack the characters on sight and

are unaffected by the lung's active elements. See the Monsters
of the Tarrasque Task supplement for details.


The heart is subjected to the same conditions as the
circulatory system (see General Features).
You watch in amazement as this massive, muscular organ
pounds and beats in rhythm. This must be the creature's heart.

There are five exits to the heart, each marked in Roman
numerals on the tarrasque map. When the characters first
enter the heart, each one must make a DC 20 Strength saving
throw. On a failed saving throw, a creature is rushed out of the
tarrasque's heart through a random blood vessel and pushed
60-feet along the passage until it can stop itself or it enters an
organ. Refer to the Blood Vessels table below to determine
which way they are sent. At the start of the creature's next
turn, it must succeed on a DC 15 Strength saving throw to
stop itself from being pushed an additional 60 feet through the
creature's blood vessel. Otherwise, it continues until it ends in
an organ.
Blood Vessels
d10

Exit Description

1-3

I

Superior vena cava. The creature is pushed
north up to the tarrasque's mouth (Area 5).

4-5

II

Pulmonary artery. The creature is pushed into
the tarrasque's right lung (Area 2).

6-8

III

Aorta. See the section on the tarrasque's
Aorta.

Above: Left lung

9-10

IV

Pulmonary vein. The creature is pushed into
the tarrasque's left lung (Area 4).

Treat the entirety of the left lung as a complex trap for the
characters to avoid, using initiative to get around certain parts
of it.
Trigger. The conditions are already in effect when the
characters enter the lung.
Initiative. The lung's features act on initiative count 20 and
initiative count 10.
Active Elements. The tarrasque's inhalations suck in air
(and anything in the lung) then exhale, affecting all creatures
and objects within the tower.

Destroying the Heart. The characters might get the idea
that destroying the heart can stop the tarrasque. And there's
some truth to this. The tarrasque's heart has AC 18 (damage
threshold 10) and 100 hp. It is immune to fire, poison, and
psychic damage, plus bludgeoning, piercing and slashing
damage from nonmagical attacks. If the tarrasque's heart is
reduced to 0 hit points, the tarrasque falls unconscious and
remains unconscious for 24 hours. At the end of the 24 hour
period, its heart regains all of its hit points and the tarrasque
springs back to life.


The left lung is the healthier of the two lungs.
This enormous organ is roughly 80-feet long and 45-feet wide
with 15-foot high ceilings. Healthy-looking veins and arteries
cover the walls, floors, and ceiling like webbing. With each of
the tarrasque's inhalations air pours into the room. Then,
seconds later, it breathes out, dispelling the air.
There are two exits. The first, at one of the shorter walls on
the end leads back into the creature's circulatory system. The
second on the long wall leads into a red chamber that pounds
like a war drum, likely the beast's heart.

Inhale (Initiative 20). Each creature in the lung must make a
DC 15 Strength saving throw or fall prone in its space.
Exhale (Initiative 10). Each creature in the lung must make
a DC 15 Strength saving throw or be pushed towards the
northern exit into the circulatory system.
Pharom Tracan. One of the four adventurers tasked by
Moreen to unleash the tarrasque can be found in this lung.
Pharom Tracan (N male Anorian elf gladiator) is lying
unconscious in the central path. Failing to fight off the
tarrasque's antibodies, Pharom's hit points were reduced to 0.
Once the antibodies saw that he was down, they left the scene.
Fortunately, Pharom stabilized and now has 1 hit point
remaining. Pharom gladly gives details about his lost
companions and notes that the party's mage, Suzen Khahlo,
likely has the Blightspore. Khahlo can be found in tarrasque's
appendix (Area 18). Pharom will gladly join the party
9

in their quest to find his companions.

Natural light shines through a series of densely-packed, curved,
white and yellow columns ahead of you. The fleshly, pink floor
undulates slightly. Then it hits you: you're in the Tarrasque's
mouth. Behind you, the gaping portal of the creature's
esophagus descends further into its anatomy.

Creatures that are bitten and not instantly killed wind up here,
in the tarrasque's mouth.
A creature can escape through the tarrasque's mouth by
using its action to make a DC 18 Strength (Athletics) or
Dexterity (Acrobatics) check. On a success, the creature
escapes through the tarrasque's mouth and lands either on its
face or down to the ground below. A creature that grabs onto
the tarrasque's face must make a successful DC 10 Strength
(Athletics) check at the start of its turn to continue holding
onto it. And a creature that falls to the ground falls 1d10 x 10
feet, taking 1d6 falling damage for every 10 feet they fall
(maximum of 20d6).
Tongue. Once a creature enters the tarrasque's mouth, its
tongue starts working to push the creature into its esophagus.
On initiative count 15, each creature in the tarrasque's mouth
must succeed on a DC 13 Dexterity saving throw. On a failed
saving throw, a creature is pushed 30-feet back into the
tarrasque's esophagus. See details on the

10

esophagus to determine what happens to a character that
starts their turn there. The tongue has an AC 18 and 50 hit
points, and is immune to fire, poison, and psychic damage, as
well as bludgeoning, piercing, and slashing damage made
from nonmagical attacks. Dealing 25 damage in a single turn
has the same effect as dealing 60 damage to any other part of
the tarrasque's digestive tract (see General Features).

This chamber has a crude triangular shape with the two shorter
walls being 35-feet long and the long wall around 50-feet long.
An eclectic mix of garbage, half-chewed creatures, and even
treasure litters the fleshy floors of this organ. A dwarven priest
bearing the markings of a god of agriculture rests in one of the
corners.

Begrir Bronzefeet. One of the adventurers who helped
Moreen Trask, Begrir Bronzefeet (LG male Von Doral dwarf
priest) is stuck in the crop. He's alive, but barely. His left arm
is missing, he's down to 3 hit points, and he's used all of his
spell slots. He's eager to find his friends in the tarrasque. He
isn't sure who has the Blightspore, but his guess is that the
mage, Suzen Khahlo still has it—if she's still alive. Begrir will
join the party so long as they can provide healing.
Treasure. A small, bronze chest holding 4,000 silver pieces
is amid the rubble. A simple lock (DC 15 to pick or break

open) has—surprisingly—kept its treasure from spilling out.
Note that it weighs 100 pounds. There is also a dead gnome
holding a +2 dagger. Begrir doesn't know who the gnome
is/was.

stretch across the full 60-foot width of the area, avoiding the
pool of bubbling, green acid down below. Within the pool of
acid, you watch the bleached bones of large creatures churn.



At the center of one of the fleshy walk ways, you notice
something small that glimmers like gold.

Just as the characters are about to step into this chamber for
the first time, a massive clump of phlegm blasts through the
exit. Any creatures standing within 10 feet of the entrance
when this happens must make a DC 10 Dexterity saving
throw. On a failed saving, a creature is covered in tarrasque
saliva. Until the creature can clean the saliva off, it acts as if
under the effects of a slow spell (and because it's from a
tarrasque, the saliva is, in fact, magical). Also, the creature
fails all Strength saving throws to avoid being pushed down
the tarrasque's esophagus (see the section on the Esophagus
above).
A creature can use a cantrip like thaumaturgy or
prestidigitation to remove the saliva by spending 1 minute
targeting the covered creature. Otherwise, the saliva can't be
removed until the creature bathes itself within a relatively
clean liquid or swims through the tarrasque's circulatory
system. Use your discretion.
Once the characters get past the initial saliva blast, read the
following:
This chamber is 65-feet long and 20-feet across. Ooze, pus,
and slime cover the entirety of the area. It appears that the only
way out is through the way in which you came.

The entire room is caustic. A creature that starts its turn in
this chamber takes 7 (2d6) acid damage just by being in there.
Falling into the acid is even more dangerous. The first time
a creature enters the pool of acid and each turn that they start
in it, the creature takes 56 (16d6) acid damage. The pool of
acid is 20-feet deep.
Unless it's within the first 5 rounds of the characters
entering the tarrasque, the hole that leads into the Dubufi
tower (Area 1a and 1b) has closed shut.
The stomach is part of the digestive tract (see General
Features above).
Encounter. Three bile oozes pull themselves out of the pool
of acid and attack. While unintelligent, their goal is to grapple
any creature that they can and pull it into the acid pool below.
Use the black pudding stat block for the bile oozes.
Suzen Khahlo's Monocle. After Suzen was swallowed, she
wound up in the stomach of the tarrasque. Injured—but
protected by heavy abjuration spells and effects—she crawled
west into the creature's digestive tract. Her golden monocle
can be found just before the exit that leads further down the
tarrasque's digestive tract.

Encounter. Twelve saliva oozes are in this area. Treat a saliva
ooze as a gray ooze, except when it uses its False Appearance
it is indistinguishable from the tarrasque's innards.


When the characters enter this area for the first time, read:
Your eyes immediately start to sting the moment you enter this
large, fleshy chamber. Narrow pathways of pink sinew

Right: Stomach

11

Above: Spleen


The first time the characters enter this chamber, read:
This bloody chamber is 40-feet by 25-feet. It appears that the
only exit is the one you came in through. The moment you step
inside, slightly translucent, white blobs race towards you.

Encounter. Eleven killer cells attack (see the Monsters of
the Tarrasque Task supplement).

This chamber is 50-feet deep and 20-feet wide. Rancidsmelling pus oozes up from the floor.

Like walking on a giant acidic sponge, each step taken in this
organ releases acid. When a character moves through the
Below: Pancreas

12

room, they take 1 acid damage for every 5 feet they move, and
at the end of their movement, they must make a DC 10
Constitution saving throw. On a failed saving throw, the
creature's movement is reduced by 5 feet until it receives
magical healing. A creature whose movement is reduced to 0
falls prone.
A prone creature in this area takes 3 (1d6) acid damage at
the start of each of their turns.
Encounter. A dire tapeworm (see the "Monsters of the
Tarrasque Task" supplement) occupies this chamber. It would
very much like to eat the characters.
Treasure. Tucked into the northern pocket of the pancreas
is a mostly digested orc. The orc was carrying a draconic bag
of holding. The bag functions as a normal bag of holding but
glows warmly when within 120 feet of a dragon or
dragonborn (240 feet if the dragon or dragonborn is red).
Within the bag are 100 gp, a potion of fire resistance, and
three ornate daggers (each one is worth 100 gp). A small
creature can squeeze into the pocket without any trouble, but
a Medium creature must use 10 feet of movement to pull itself
inside.

This huge chamber looks as if it's seen better days. The fleshy
ground below you crunches as you walk; bits of dried cells flake
off and kick up dust. Some sort of fungus grows over
everything. There are two exits. Both are next to each other.

13

One of the exits returns to the tarrasque's circulatory system.
The second emits a pale green light.

Regular consumption of all things unusual and magical have
taken its toll on the tarrasque's liver.
The first time a creature enters this chamber and when they
start their turn here, it must roll a DC 10 Constitution saving
throw or become poisoned. While poisoned, the creature
experiences hallucinations. Treat the creature as if it is under
the effects of the confusion spell. The confusion effect ends
when the creature is no longer poisoned.
After a creature poisoned by the tarrasque's liver leaves the
area, it can repeat its saving throw at the end of each of its
turns, ending the effect on itself with a success.
A creature that succeeds on its saving throw is immune to
this effect for 24 hours.


This room radiates bright green and white light. It'd be almost
beautiful it wasn't so awful smelling.

A creature that steps into the room is automatically covered in
tarrasque bile. The creature takes 3 (1d6) acid damage from
the bile and until it removes the bile, it smells horrible. Any
creature that comes within 5 feet of a bile-covered creature
(that doesn't live in the tarrasque or is covered in bile itself)
must succeed on a DC 10 Constitution saving throw or be
poisoned until the start of its next turn. On a successful saving
throw, the creature is immune to the smell of tarrasque bile
for 24 hours.

14


This putrid chamber takes on the rough shape of a 35-foot
square. A whirlwind of air, acid, and fire at the center of the
chamber makes it seem almost impossible to cross through
unscathed.

This duodenum chamber is used to break down particularly
tough elements. The first time a creature enters this area or if
a creature starts its turn in the area, it must make a DC 15
Constitution saving throw. On a failed saving throw, the
creature takes 10 (3d6) acid damage plus 10 (3d6) fire
damage. On a successful saving throw, the creature takes half
as much damage. The fire and acid heavily obscure everything
in the area.

This foul chamber takes on the rough shape of a 35-foot
square. A pool of oily gray sludge bubbles up from its center.

The pool of acid is 15-feet deep. The first time a creature
enters the pool of acid or starts its turn there, it takes 18 (4d8)
acid damage. In addition, any nonmagical armor worn by the
target is partly dissolved and takes a permanent and
cumulative -1 penalty to the AC it offers. The armor is
destroyed if the penalty reduces its AC to 10.
Encounter. An oxyhydra lingers in the pool of acid. The
oxyhydra has the same statistics as a hydra but is immune to
acid damage and can swim through the acid as if it was water.
One of the hydra's favorite tactics is to leap into the air and
splash back into the pool. Any creature within 5 feet of

the hydra when it does this must succeed on a DC 12
Dexterity saving or take 9 (2d8) acid damage. The hydra's CR
is 9 for this encounter.



The first time the characters enter this chamber, read the
following:
This ghastly chamber takes on the rough shape of a 35-foot
square. As soon as you step inside, the fleshy walls start to
swell.

The chamber is designed to crush to paste anything that
makes it through the first chambers. On initiative count 10,
the chamber contracts. Any creature in the area when it first
contracts must make a DC 10 Dexterity saving throw. The
chamber continues to contract until all foreign creatures and
objects have left the area or are destroyed.
On a successful save, the creature can choose to be pushed
to one of the chamber's two exits (target's choice). A creature
that chooses not to be pushed suffers the consequences of a
failed saving throw.
On a failed saving throw, the creature is restrained by the
walls. A restrained creature is blinded, can't breathe and takes
21 (6d6) acid damage on each of its turns.
On its turn, a creature restrained by the walls of the
chamber can make a DC 20 Strength (Athletics) check to
escape the chamber's walls. Doing so allows it to move but at
a cost of 4 feet per 1 foot of movement.

This chamber is 60-feet long by 20-feet wide. There are two
exits. One exit leads up through what you can only guess is the
creature's intestine. The other path exits through a small
passage on one of the shorter walls.

dissolved by the acids within the beast, you can still make out
the fuschia cord of Arruquettan Royalty. Lying 15-feet away
from the dissolved soldier is a golden great axe that appears to
be untouched by its trip through the creature's digestive tract.

The deceased knight is Erebo Asteasuain who, unfortunately,
did not survive the journey through the tarrasque's guts.
However, his sacrifice is the only thing that ensured Suzen
Khalho's survival. Any of Erebo's comrades who see his body
will immediately recognize that it's him. His great axe, War's
Wager (see the Magic Items of the Tarrasque Task
supplement) remains intact.

This moist chamber is almost like stepping into a massive,
fleshy cylinder; the chamber is 60-feet long and 20-feet wide.
Pulsating, pink, egg-like objects the size of ripe melons cling to
the walls, floors, and ceilings of this chamber.

Encounter. The objects are dire roundworm cysts. There
are ten total. See the Monsters of the Tarrasque Task
supplement.

This goliath chamber is 65-feet long and 20-feet and branches
off creating an L-shape. Strange, thumb-sized worms wiggle
through the folds. Each one emits a bright yellow glow, offering
limited light.
At the center of a room, you see what looks like a humanoid
wearing blue and silver robes.

The person is Suzen Khalho (LG female Knotsider human

At the center of the area, you see the dissolved remains of
what looks like a knight. Although much of its armor has been

Below: Jejunum

15

mage), leader of the Ironfield. She made her way to the
appendix and got stuck. Having what most adventures would
consider a "bad day", she finally collapsed in exhaustion. In
her hands, she's clutching Blightspore, a titan's tooth claymore
(see the *Magic Items of the Tarrasque Task *supplement).
Suzen has only 5 hit points remaining and 5 levels of
exhaustion when the characters discover her. Unless she
completes a long rest or a greater restoration spell is cast
upon her, she won't be able to move on her own. Plus, she's
used all of her spell slots.
The worms are harmless. But if taken and stored in a jar or
similar object, they create bright light in a 5-foot radius and
dim light for an additional 5-feet. The worms die in 24 hours.
Of any location in the tarrasque's body, this is probably the
safest. For some unknown reason, the tarrasques antibodies
won't travel here—you don't have to roll for random
encounters. While a long rest won't be possible, a short rest
may work.
16


The smell oozing out of the exit at one end of this roughly 40foot square chamber is enough to turn your stomach.

Encounter. Four stool elementals (see the "Monsters of the
Tarrasque Task" supplement) guard this chamber.

The stench of this chamber is awful. What you can only guess
is feces covers the walls, floors, and ceilings like thick mud. At
regular intervals, pockets of the feces explode and emit a brief
white light.

Any creature that enters this chamber or starts its turn here

must succeed on a DC 10 Constitution saving throw
or be poisoned until the start of its next turn. On a
successful saving throw, the creature is immune to the
stench of the tarrasque's feces for 24 hours. In
addition, on initiative count 20, roll an attack roll
against each character in the area with a +5 to hit. On
a hit, a creature is hit in the eyes with feces and is
blinded until the start of its next turn.
If you trigger a random encounter in this area, you
can choose to have 1d6 stool elementals attack the
characters instead of the tarrasque's antibodies.

This area is so large you can't see to the other end of it.
Feces riddles the floors, walls, and ceiling. The air is
incredibly dry here.

The transverse colon absorbs water and salts. A
creature that enters this chamber or starts its turn
there must succeed on a DC 10 Constitution saving
throw. On a failed saving throw, water is pulled from
the creature into the surface of the colon. The creature
takes 7 (2d6) necrotic damage and the creature's hit
points are reduced by an amount equal to the necrotic
damage taken.
If you trigger a random encounter in this area, you
can choose to have 1d6 stool elementals attack the
characters instead of the tarrasque's antibodies.

You can't even tell how deep or wide this chamber is as
huge mounds of feces block the majority of the path.
And the smell—well, let's just say it's nothing that the
minstrels will be singing about.

The only way through the descending colon is by
burrowing through the mounds of feces that cover the
area. A creature without a burrowing speed can create
a path through the feces large enough for it to crawl
through by using its action to make a Strength
(Athletics) check. The distance the creature digs
through the feces is equal to the result of its check.
After the creature has dug through the feces, at the
end of its turn, it must make a DC 12 Constitution
saving throw. On a failed saving throw it contracts a
disease. Until the disease is cured, the target can't
regain hit points except by magical means, and the
target's Constitution decreases by 1 every 24 hours. If
the target's Constitution score drops to 0 as a result of
this disease, the target dies.
Encounter. There are three stool elementals in this
chamber.
Evacuation. If the ceiling, floor, or walls of this
chamber take 60 damage or more on a single turn
from a creature inside it, roll a d20. On a result of 12
or higher, the tarrasque ejects all of the waste in this
chamber as well as its sigmoid colon (Area 23) and
rectum (Area 24). Any creature that does not wish to
be ejected must succeed on a DC 20 Strength saving
17

Above: Transverse colon
throw. An ejected creature exits through the tarrasque's
rectum and falls 1d6 x 10 feet to the ground below it. A
creature takes only 1d6 damage for every 20 feet it falls,
rounded down—the feces helps breaks its fall.
Treasure. Every 5 feet that the character digs through the
tarrasque's feces, roll a d6. On a result of 6, the character finds
a treasure. Choose or roll randomly on the Tarrasque Feces
Treasure table to determine the nature of the treasure.
Tarrasque Feces Treasure
d6

Treasure Found

1

1 trinket on the PHB trinkets table

2

a leather flask full of clear liquid (hopefully it's
water)

3

1d6 gold pieces

4

a human skull with three gold teeth (each worth
1 gp)

5

a longsword

6

a random magic item from Treasure Table B in
the DMG


This chamber takes a sharp curve. Small pockets—like fleshly
alcoves—mark the walls, floors, and ceilings. Within each, there
are hard, brown objects that look almost like rocks.

The tarrasque suffers from diverticulitis, a very annoying but
harmless condition of the colon. Other than that information,
there is nothing else of value to be found here.
Evacuation. If the ceiling, floor, or walls of this chamber
take 60 damage or more on a single turn from a creature
inside it, roll a d20. On a result of 12 or higher, the

18

tarrasque ejects all of the waste in this chamber as well as its
rectum (Area 24). Any creature that does not wish to be
ejected must succeed on a DC 20 Strength check. An ejected
creature exits through the tarrasque's rectum and falls 1d6 x
10 feet to the ground below it. A creature takes only 1d6
damage for every 20 feet it falls, rounded down—the feces
helps breaks its fall.

At first glance, this awful-smelling, triangular chamber seems to
only have one exit. But to your dismay, at the center of the
"floor" of this chamber, there is a fleshy iris that quivers with
each step you take. For a brief moment, natural light shines
through the center of the iris before it closes again.

Yep. It's the tarrasque's anus. A creature can use its action to
make a Strength (Athletics) check to push its way out of the
tarrasque's anus and through its cloaca. Refer to the Escape
Through the Anus table below to determine the results of the
check.
Escape Through the Anus
Check Result Effect
9 or less

No effect.

10-14

The creature is stuck half-way with half of
its body hanging out of the tarrasque's
anus (target's choice which end it is). On
its next turn, it can make the check again
with advantage.

The creature successfully escapes the
tarrasque's anus but falls 1d6 x 10 feet to
15 or higher the ground below. A creature takes 1d6
falling damage for every 10 feet it falls
(maximum 20d6).

19

Evacuation. If the ceiling, floor, or walls of this chamber
take 60 damage or more on a single turn from a creature
inside it, roll a d20. On a result of 12 or higher, the tarrasque
ejects all of the waste in this chamber. Any creature that does
not wish to be ejected must succeed on a DC 20 Strength
check. An ejected creature exits through the tarrasque's
rectum and falls 1d6 x 10 feet to the ground below it. A
creature takes only 1d6 damage for every 20 feet it falls,
rounded down—the feces helps breaks its fall.

This pocked chamber reeks of urine and waste. It also looks like
this organ has seen better days. There are two exits. One leads
back to the circulatory system and the second exudes more of
the foul smell. What's odd is that there is a wooden bulletin
board hammered into the side of the wall. It appears to have a
map on it. It's hard to totally make out what it reads from
where you're standing, but you're pretty sure you see a red
arrow pointing to a spot that reads, "You are here."

The left kidney is in rough shape. The passage that leads
down through the bladder is mostly shriveled. A Small
creature can move through with no trouble, but a Medium
creature can move through the passage at a rate of 4 feet for
every 1 foot of movement.
Encounter. The bulletin board is actually a mimic that got
stuck in the tarrasque centuries ago. It waits for a creature to
get close then attacks.

This pocked chamber reeks of urine and waste. Overall, this
organ appears healthy and clean. there are two exits. One leads
back to the circulatory system and the second exudes more of
the foul smell.

Any non-tarrasque creature or object (basically, excluding all
of the new monsters in the "Monsters of the Tarrasque Task"
supplement) that enters this area or starts its turns there is
seen as waste by the kidney. On initiative 15, lightning
discharges from the wall, targeting a creature in the area
(choose one or roll randomly) with a +10 to hit. A creature hit
by the wall takes 7 (2d6) lightning damage.
The pipe that leads down to the tarrasque's bladder (Area
27) is slippery and easy to slide down. A creature that slides
through it moves at a rate of 60 feet per turn, then drops into
the tarrasque's urine reserve. A creature can attempt to stop
itself by succeeding on a DC 10 Strength saving throw,
holding itself in place.


Both of the passages leading from the kidney exit out of the
"ceiling" of this chamber. A creature that falls into the
chamber lands in a pool of the tarrasque's urine 20-feet
below. The first time a creature enters the urine pool, it must
succeed on a DC 10 Constitution saving throw or become
blinded until the end of its next turn. A creature that succeeds
on its saving throw is immune to the blinding effects of the
tarrasque's urine for 24 hours.

Climbing back up through the passages is an
extraordinarily difficult task. Without a climbing speed, a
creature must succeed on a DC 15 Strength (Athletics) check
each turn it attempts to move to climb. If it fails this check by
5 or more, it slips and falls into the pool of urine and must
start all over.
Each turn that at least one creature is in the tarrasque's
urine pool and moving or splashing about, roll a d20. On a
result of 12 or higher, the tarrasque evacuates its bladder,
dumping the contents through its cloaca. Each creature in the
pool that does not wish to be urinated out must succeed on a
DC 12 Strength saving throw. On a successful saving throw, a
creature grabs onto the "shore" of the pool and avoids being
urinated.
On a failed saving throw, the creature is pushed out of the
tarrasque's urethra and through its cloaca. Then, it falls 1d6 x
10 feet to the ground below. Because the tarrasque evacuates
its stool at the same time it does its bladder, the creature
lands in a pile of warm feces that help break its fall. The
creature only takes 3 (1d6) damage for every 20 feet it falls
(maximum of 20d6).



Ideally, the characters find Suzen Khalo and the sword
Blightspore, then give the sword to Moreen Trask. Moreen,
holding her green stone in one hand and the sword in the
other, speaks a mighty invocation: a powerful wish spell that
immediately causes the tarrasque to fall unconscious. The
tarrasque collapses, shaking the ground and everything
around it.
Moreen, exhausted, tells the characters to check back with
her in one week for their reward. Despite her chaotic nature,
she lives up to her promise—she's insane, but not dumb. A
week later, she's created a suit of armor from chips of the
tarrasque's hide. The armor functions as tarrasque plate. See
the Magic Items of the Tarrasque Task supplement for details.
Moreen creates magical bindings to keep the tarrasque in
place so she can continue her study of the beast. Of course,
with it stuck in the middle of the Central Omerian desert,
she's likely to turn a few heads. She might need help
defending her big beasty and may offer the characters a
substantial gold reward to assist.



Should the Ironfield escape their fate within the tarrasque,
they will be extremely grateful to the characters and be
forever in their debt. Of course, they won't be too happy with
Moreen. After all, the gnome left them to die within the bowels
—literally—of a tarrasque. How Suzen and her colleagues
react is ultimately up to you. Even angry, Suzen is intelligence
and wise, so it's unlikely that she and her group will be able to
handle an archmage the level of Moreen Trask without getting
some rest and/or help.
If the characters are in possession of War's Wager, Suzen
requests that they return the axe to them so they may, in turn,
return it to Erebo Asteasuain's mother in Arruquetta. In
exchange, they offer an item from their collection (allow each
player to choose any item they like from the Magic Item Table
B of the DMG)—most of it is "junk" for a party of the
Ironfield's level, so they're willing to give each character one
20

so long as the characters yield can have Erebo's axe.



If the characters don't recover Blightspore, then that means
there's a big, ticked-off tarrasque wandering around Central
Omeria destroying and/or eating everything in its path.
Eventually, another group of plucky adventurers will stop the
creature, sure. But who knows how much destruction it will
cause between now and then? Ω




You might find the typical tarrasque block lacking for a
creature the size of Uduzmoth the Obese. After all, Fifth
Edition tarrasques are nowhere close to the challenge they
were in previous editions. Furthermore, they are described as
"50-foot-tall" creatures. In order for Uduzmoth to be large
enough to have creatures wandering around its guts, the titan
would have to be 600-feet tall. To put that in perspective,
Uduzmoth would be just a few feet shorter than the Space
Needle in Seattle, Washington, USA.
If you want Uduzmoth to present a real danger to the
characters (and just about everything else), here are a few
changes you can make to his stat block.

Variants: Mega Tarrasque
A mega-tarrasque is 10 times the size of its smaller
cousin, standing over 600-feet tall and measuring
1,200 feet in length. When they wake, very little can
stop them. A mega tarrasque has a variable challenge
rating (treat it as two CR 27 creatures) and the
following changes:
New Trait: Colossal Creature. The tarrasque's size is
Colossal. It has advantage on all of its Strength and
Constitution ability checks and saving throws, as
well as its attack rolls and adds +2 to the damage
caused by its melee weapon attacks. The range of
the tarrasque's attacks also increase as follows:
Claw, 60 ft.; Horns, 45 ft.; Frightful Presence, 500
feet.
New Trait: Regeneration. The mega tarrasque regains
25 hit points at the start of its turn. Only a wish
spell or magic of a similar level can disable this trait
for 1 minute.
New Trait: Rejuvenation. The mega tarrasque is
nearly impossible to remove from existence—not
even a wish spell or the act of a diety can destroy it.
Instead, if its hit points are reduced to 0 and a wish
spell is used to stop it from regenerating, the
tarrasque enters a deep slumber that lasts 3d6 x
100 years.
New Action: Bite. The tarrasque targets a 15-foot
square within 60 feet of it. Each creature in that
square must make a DC 22 Dexterity saving throw.
On a failed saving throw, the creature takes 38
(4d12 + 12) piercing damage and is now inside the
tarrasque's mouth (Area 5).
This attack replaces the tarrasque's normal Bite
attack.
New Action: Tail Swipe. The tarrasque swings its
600-foot-long tail the targets everything within a
300-foot-long cone. Each creature in the area must
succeed on a DC 22 Dexterity saving throw. A
creature that fails its saving throw takes 26 (4d6 +
12) bludgeoning damage. if the target is a creature,
it must succeed on a DC 25 Strength saving throw
or be flung up to 20 feet away from the tarrasque
and knocked prone. If a thrown target strikes an
object, such as a wall or floor, the target takes 3
(1d6) bludgeoning damage for every 10 feet it was
thrown. if the target is thrown at another creature,
that creature must succeed on a DC 17 Dexterity
saving throw or take the same damage and be
knocked prone.
If the saving throw is successful, the target takes
half the bludgeoning damage isn't flung away or
knocked prone.
This action replaces the tarrasque's normal Tail
attack and it cannot be used as part of the
tarrasque's Multiattack.

21

